In the last video, we installed a type definition file for Faker.
As a quick side, one of those benefits of type definition files is that we can now hover over faker
right here.
And then if you're on Mac, hold down the command key.
Or if you're on windows, hold down control.
You'll notice that faker turns into a clickable link of sorts.
If we now click on that, we'll be taken to the type definition file that we just installed.
Notice how the name of this file is indexed.
D Dots traditionally type definition files are named with extensions of dots.
So any time you are looking at some typescript code and you see a file with that extension, that means
you are looking at a type definition file.
Inside this file, you're going to find nothing but typescript syntax.
So the only goal of this file right here is to describe the different types of values, functions,
objects, classes that exist inside the Fakher library.
So there will not actually be any functions that are implemented inside of here.
Instead, instead, you will only see a definition of the different types that are available.
If you look inside of here, we can actually use this as a source of documentation.
So, for example, remember at the official documentation we looked at just a moment ago, we saw that
address module.
So this right here is telling TypeScript that this library has a address object and inside of it are
different functions like zip code, city, city prefix and so on.
We can see the different arguments that each of them take and the different type of values that they
return.
So like I said, we can use this file as kind of an alternate forms of documentation to understand how
to work with a given library.
So in this case, we can take a look at address.
If we scroll down, you'll notice that latitude and longitude are two functions inside there, and we're
going to use those functions to actually randomly generate our latitude and longitude.
As a quick side note, I want you to notice how latitude, longitude, return strings, which is actually
kind of not very typical.
Usually we reflect latitude and longitude as numbers.
So having them being returned here as a string means that might be a little bit unexpected and we might
have to deal with that at some point in time.
But we'll just see what happens.
All right.
So I'm going to close this file.
In back inside of my user file, we're now going to do some initialization of our name, latitude and
longitude inside of our constructor.
So inside the constructor, as soon as we make an instance of a user, we're going to randomly generate
a name and assign it to that name property.
So inside of here, I'll say this name is going to come from Faker.
We're going to get the name module.
Remember, we saw that in the official documentation.
Here's a name right here and we're going to generate a first name.
Once again, we could find the existence of this function either by looking at the official documentation
or just command clicking on faker and then search this thing for like first name.
And there it is.
So here's the name module.
There's the first name method.
Even by looking at this documentation right here or this type definition file, you'll notice that we
even are told that we can take in a gender argument right here.
This actually did not exist in the official documentation.
So the type definition file actually gives us more information sometimes than a typed effort or a documentation
document actually does.
All right.
So now we've generated the first name.
We can do the same thing for our latitude and longitude as well.
Now, here's a really quick note for you, something that really gets people hung up when they are getting
started with TypeScript.
At this point, we have only till told TypeScript that our class user is going to be of type or are
going to have a property called location and location will have an object with a latitude and longitude
property.
Here's the important thing.
When we create an instance of a user, location does not get automatically set to be an object.
So in other words, if we did right here a console log of this location, we would see undefined or
null.
That means that if we try to do direct assignment to latitude and longitude like this location lat equals
some number, we would actually see an error message and would say something like cannot read property
of lat of undefined.
So all we have done up here is said, Hey, TypeScript, we're going to have a location, property.
It will be an object that has these two properties, but we have not done any initialization for that
yet.
There is no object here when we create our user, so we are responsible for initialization of this object
and the properties inside of it.
So in other words, that means to initialize latitude and longitude.
We have to say this location is going to be an object with properties, let and lag.
So we can try to initialize both Latin lag will do faker address latitude.
I'll get a comma at the end of that line and then faker dot address, dot longitude like so.
Even then, I still see an error message.
If we mouse over this, you'll notice that it says.
Expected or right here type string is not assignable to type number.
So remember when we were looking at the documentation for latitude and longitude or the type definition
file just a second ago we saw that latitude and longitude were functions that returned strings, but
we clearly said that latitude and longitude were going to be numbers.
Once again, in my opinion, this is kind of an oversight by the faker people and they really should
be returning numbers here.
However, that's just how they built this library.
So we need to take the strings that are returned by latitude and longitude and convert them into numbers.
To do so, we have to do an actual conversion process.
Like this is a string right here, so we have to convert that into an actual number.
So to do so, we're going to take a very JavaScript style approach.
We're going to use the parse float function just to make sure you are aware the parse float function
is built into JavaScript.
It takes a string and returns a number that has a decimal value attached to it so we can call a parse
float on both.
In the air goes away because now we are assigning a number to both latitude and longitude.
All right.
So that's pretty much it.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back, the next video, we're going to start to actually make use of our class.
So I'll see you in just a minute.